# Marketing-Campaign-Efficiency-Improvement-Project

Introduction:
In this project, we aim to improve the marketing campaign efficiency of a business based on a Marketing Campaign dataset found on Kaggle. We will develop predictive models using Python and showcase various data visualizations to analyze the customer characteristics in the supplied dataset. Our end goal is to identify and precisely forecast the subscription behavior of the customers in this given business’ marketing campaign. In other words, to predict who will respond to an offer for a product or service. By analyzing the characteristics of the customers in this dataset, we hope to identify the business’s ideal customers. This will help the business better understand its customers to modify its product offerings according to the specific needs, behaviors, and concerns of its customers. Furthermore, our analysis can help this business decide if they could tailor specific campaigns and promotions to their ideal customers to increase this business’ marketing campaign efficiency and boost the response rate of future marketing campaigns.

Research Questions/Problems:
What are the key elements influencing customer spending and store visits?
How can demographic characteristics such as age and family status influence customer behavior?
Can promotional responses predict consumer spending and frequency of purchases?

Motivation
In the analysis of the supplied dataset, we will present various data visualizations to provide a comprehensive understanding of the customer characteristics and behaviors within the dataset. For Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA), we will use visualizations such as histograms, scatter plots, etc. to explore the distribution of variables, identify outliers, and understand the relationship between different variables. A correlation heatmap will also be used to identify the correlation between the different variables in the dataset. On top of the data visualizations, we will use machine learning (ML) models such as logistic regression, decision tree, and support vector machine (SVM) to build the predictive models. These models will help us understand the information contained within the dataset to accurately predict the response rate of the customers in this business’ marketing campaign. The combination of the machine learning models, as well as the data visualizations will aim to provide actionable insights that empower the business to make informed decisions regarding its marketing strategies, customer targeting, and overall marketing campaign efficiency. 
